agents/research-agent/case-studies/market-entry-analysis.md, before:

# Market Entry Analysis for Healthcare Startup

## Situation

Lena was a strategy consultant working with a digital health startup considering expansion into three European markets: Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden. The founders had strong intuitions but limited data. They needed a structured analysis within one week to present to their board. Lena had access to various databases but lacked deep healthcare regulatory knowledge for each market.

The challenge was scope management. The founders kept adding questions: "What about reimbursement models? What about data privacy differences? What about telehealth adoption rates?" Each question was valid, but Lena needed to deliver something actionable, not a 200-page report no one would read.

## Agent Configuration

Lena started with the **executive personality** because the board wanted bottom-line recommendations, not comprehensive literature reviews. She requested **markdown output** because the final deliverable would be a presentation deck built from the research. She also requested **export_assets: true** to generate a bibliography and data tables she could reference later.

Her initial input:

```yaml
query: "Market entry analysis for B2B digital health platform targeting hospital systems in Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden"
scope: "focused"
source_preferences:
  - regulatory documents
  - industry reports
  - recent academic studies on digital health adoption
output_format: markdown
personality: executive
export_assets: true
```

## Interaction

The agent first helped Lena sharpen the research question. When she asked about "market entry," the agent flagged that this was too broad. It suggested decomposing into: regulatory pathway, competitive landscape, buyer behavior, and implementation barriers. Lena chose to focus on regulatory pathway and buyer behavior for the initial analysis, deferring competitive landscape to a follow-up.

For the regulatory pathway, the agent found that Germany required medical device certification through BfArM, while the Netherlands had a more centralized approach through VWS. Sweden's process through Läkemedelsverket had recently changed with new digital health guidelines in 2024. The agent flagged a key insight: Germany's DiGA (Digital Health Applications) fast-track approval could reduce time-to-market by 60% if the product qualified.

The agent hit an uncertainty. For hospital procurement processes in Sweden, publicly available data was limited. The agent stated this explicitly:

```
uncertainty: Limited public data on Swedish hospital IT procurement processes. Recommend expert interview with Swedish healthcare IT consultant. Sources available provide general frameworks but not current practice.
```

Lena appreciated this. Previous research tools had either hallucinated answers or silently skipped the gap. The explicit uncertainty let her plan accordingly: she scheduled a call with a Stockholm-based consultant.

When the founders asked about reimbursement models mid-project, Lena returned to the agent with a narrower query. Instead of a full analysis, she used the educational personality to get an explanation suitable for non-experts:

```yaml
query: "How do hospital reimbursement models for digital health tools differ between Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden?"
scope: "overview"
depth: "surface"
personality: educational
output_format: markdown
```

The agent provided a comparison that the founders could actually understand: no regulatory jargon, clear examples, explicit gaps.

## Outcome

Lena delivered a 15-page report plus appendices. The executive summary was two pages: Germany was recommended as the first market due to DiGA fast-track, Netherlands second due to centralized procurement, Sweden deferred pending further research on procurement processes.

The board approved Germany entry. Six months later, the startup received DiGA provisional listing. The research had correctly identified this as the optimal pathway.

The assets export proved valuable. The bibliography file became the basis for the founders' regulatory submission documentation. The data tables on adoption rates were reused in investor presentations.

## Lessons

This scenario revealed several things about effective research-agent usage. First, personality selection mattered more than expected. The executive personality forced the agent to prioritize and synthesize rather than exhaustively catalog. When Lena needed depth on a specific topic, she switched to educational or detailed personalities for follow-up queries.

Second, scope management was collaborative. The agent's initial clarification questions helped Lena realize her scope was too broad. By explicitly choosing focus areas upfront, she avoided the "boil the ocean" failure mode that had plagued previous research projects.

Third, explicit uncertainty was a feature, not a bug. Knowing what the agent didn't know let Lena plan her research strategy: some gaps were filled with expert interviews, others were flagged as limitations in the final report. The board appreciated the intellectual honesty.

For future projects, Lena now starts research-agent sessions with scope negotiation: "Here's what I think I need to know. Help me refine this into a tractable research question." The agent's first response is as valuable as its final synthesis.

Commit message:

Restructure repo, add generation and superhero agents, improve quality
Reorganize file structure: brief.md → README.md, AGENTS.md → agent-catalogue.md,
ideas.md → agent-ideas.md. Add generation-agent (cross-generational communication)
and superhero-agent (Marvel archetypes for reframing challenges) with full specs,
prompts, skills, personalities, references, case studies, and examples.

Add disclaimers for synthesized content (handbook, agent-ideas, case-study-ideas).

agents/research-agent/case-studies/market-entry-analysis.md, after:

# Market Entry Analysis for Healthcare Startup

*This case study is fictional. Names, characters, companies, and scenarios are hypothetical. Any resemblance to actual persons or organizations is purely coincidental.*

## Situation

Lena was a strategy consultant working with a digital health startup considering expansion into three European markets: Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden. The founders had strong intuitions but limited data. They needed a structured analysis within one week to present to their board. Lena had access to various databases but lacked deep healthcare regulatory knowledge for each market.

The challenge was scope management. The founders kept adding questions: "What about reimbursement models? What about data privacy differences? What about telehealth adoption rates?" Each question was valid, but Lena needed to deliver something actionable, not a 200-page report no one would read.

## How the Agent Was Triggered

Lena accessed the research-agent through her consulting firm's knowledge management platform. The platform integrates with multiple data sources and provides a unified research interface.

**Trigger method:** Web interface, "New Research Project" workflow

**Data sources available to the agent:**

- Statista market research database (company subscription)
- PubMed/academic databases via institutional access
- EU regulatory document repositories (EUR-Lex, national health ministry sites)
- Industry reports from CB Insights and Rock Health (healthcare-specific)
- News aggregation (filtered to healthcare technology, last 24 months)

**Data sources provided by Lena:**

- Client briefing document with company description and target markets
- Previous analysis on US market (for context on product capabilities)
- Specific questions from founders (accumulated in Slack thread)
- Budget/timeline constraints: one week, focused deliverable

**What the agent could NOT access:**

- Proprietary competitive intelligence
- Non-public procurement documents
- Expert network interviews (flagged for manual follow-up)

## Agent Configuration

Lena started with the **executive personality** because the board wanted bottom-line recommendations, not comprehensive literature reviews. She requested **markdown output** because the final deliverable would be a presentation deck built from the research. She also requested **export_assets: true** to generate a bibliography and data tables she could reference later.

Her initial input:

```yaml
query: "Market entry analysis for B2B digital health platform targeting hospital systems in Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden"
scope: "focused"
source_preferences:
  - regulatory documents
  - industry reports
  - recent academic studies on digital health adoption
output_format: markdown
personality: executive
export_assets: true
```

## Interaction

The agent first helped Lena sharpen the research question. When she asked about "market entry," the agent flagged that this was too broad. It suggested decomposing into: regulatory pathway, competitive landscape, buyer behavior, and implementation barriers. Lena chose to focus on regulatory pathway and buyer behavior for the initial analysis, deferring competitive landscape to a follow-up.

For the regulatory pathway, the agent found that Germany required medical device certification through BfArM, while the Netherlands had a more centralized approach through VWS. Sweden's process through Läkemedelsverket had recently changed with new digital health guidelines in 2024. The agent flagged a key insight: Germany's DiGA (Digital Health Applications) fast-track approval could reduce time-to-market by 60% if the product qualified.

The agent hit an uncertainty. For hospital procurement processes in Sweden, publicly available data was limited. The agent stated this explicitly:

```
uncertainty: Limited public data on Swedish hospital IT procurement processes. Recommend expert interview with Swedish healthcare IT consultant. Sources available provide general frameworks but not current practice.
```

Lena appreciated this. Previous research tools had either hallucinated answers or silently skipped the gap. The explicit uncertainty let her plan accordingly: she scheduled a call with a Stockholm-based consultant.

When the founders asked about reimbursement models mid-project, Lena returned to the agent with a narrower query. Instead of a full analysis, she used the educational personality to get an explanation suitable for non-experts:

```yaml
query: "How do hospital reimbursement models for digital health tools differ between Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden?"
scope: "overview"
depth: "surface"
personality: educational
output_format: markdown
```

The agent provided a comparison that the founders could actually understand: no regulatory jargon, clear examples, explicit gaps.

## Outcome

Lena delivered a 15-page report plus appendices. The executive summary was two pages: Germany was recommended as the first market due to DiGA fast-track, Netherlands second due to centralized procurement, Sweden deferred pending further research on procurement processes.

The board approved Germany entry. Six months later, the startup received DiGA provisional listing. The research had correctly identified this as the optimal pathway.

The assets export proved valuable. The bibliography file became the basis for the founders' regulatory submission documentation. The data tables on adoption rates were reused in investor presentations.

## Lessons

This scenario revealed several things about effective research-agent usage. First, personality selection mattered more than expected. The executive personality forced the agent to prioritize and synthesize rather than exhaustively catalog. When Lena needed depth on a specific topic, she switched to educational or detailed personalities for follow-up queries.

Second, scope management was collaborative. The agent's initial clarification questions helped Lena realize her scope was too broad. By explicitly choosing focus areas upfront, she avoided the "boil the ocean" failure mode that had plagued previous research projects.

Third, explicit uncertainty was a feature, not a bug. Knowing what the agent didn't know let Lena plan her research strategy: some gaps were filled with expert interviews, others were flagged as limitations in the final report. The board appreciated the intellectual honesty.

For future projects, Lena now starts research-agent sessions with scope negotiation: "Here's what I think I need to know. Help me refine this into a tractable research question." The agent's first response is as valuable as its final synthesis.
