agents/culture-agent/case-studies/german-us-product-launch.md, before:

# German-US Product Launch Meeting

## Situation

Maria, a product manager at a Munich-based automotive supplier, was preparing for a critical meeting with her US counterparts in Detroit. The meeting would finalize a joint product launch timeline. Previous meetings had gone poorly: the German team felt the Americans were "making promises they couldn't keep" while the US team complained the Germans were "blocking progress with endless requirements." Maria's VP asked her to prepare differently this time.

Maria had three days before the meeting. She needed to understand what was going wrong and how to bridge the gap. The stakes were high: the partnership was worth €50M annually, and both sides were frustrated enough to consider alternative partners.

## Agent Configuration

Maria chose the **business personality** because this was a formal corporate context with negotiations at stake. She requested **yaml output** because she wanted structured, actionable intelligence she could share with her team. She also requested the **meeting-prep skill** to get a comprehensive briefing.

Her input:

```yaml
my_culture: German
their_culture: US
context: "Joint product launch timeline meeting, third attempt after two failed meetings"
meeting_type: negotiation
participants:
  - name: "David Chen"
    role: "VP Product"
    relationship: "Met twice, tense"
  - name: "Sarah Williams"
    role: "Program Manager"
    relationship: "New contact"
personality: business
output_format: yaml
```

## Interaction

The agent first identified the core cultural dimensions at play. It flagged that Germans score high on uncertainty avoidance (65) while the US scores low (46), meaning Germans need detailed plans before committing while Americans are comfortable iterating. It also noted that German communication tends to be more direct and task-focused, while US business culture often starts with relationship-building.

The friction detection was revealing. The agent identified that when the US team said "we're aligned on the timeline," the Germans heard a commitment, but Americans meant "we agree in principle, details to follow." When the Germans pushed back with detailed questions, the US team interpreted it as distrust rather than thoroughness.

Maria asked the agent to reframe a specific message. She wanted to say: "We cannot proceed until all technical specifications are finalized." The agent suggested: "To make sure we hit our launch date together, let's walk through the technical specs and flag any that need more detail. That way we're both confident in the timeline." Same intent, but framed as partnership rather than blocking.

For the meeting itself, the agent provided:

```yaml
pre_meeting:
  relationship_building: "5-10 minutes of small talk expected; prepare questions about their recent product wins"
  materials: "Send agenda 48 hours ahead; Americans appreciate seeing topics but not as rigidly bound to them"

during_meeting:
  pace: "Expect faster pace than German meetings; decisions may be proposed before all data is reviewed"
  language: "American enthusiasm ('this is great!') is politeness, not final agreement"
  disagreement: "Frame concerns as 'how do we solve X' rather than 'X is a problem'"

commitments:
  interpretation: "Write down specific action items; Americans may interpret verbal agreement differently"
  follow_up: "Send written summary within 24 hours to confirm understanding"
```

## Outcome

The meeting went differently. Maria started with 10 minutes discussing Detroit's recent EV announcement, something she'd researched beforehand. When David said "we're excited about this timeline," she responded with "Great, let's make sure we capture all the details so we're both set up to deliver." Instead of pushing back on aggressive dates, she asked "what would need to be true for us to hit that date?"

The US team responded differently too. When they saw the Germans taking notes and asking clarifying questions, Sarah said "I appreciate how thorough you're being. This is going to save us problems later." The meeting ended with a written timeline that both sides understood the same way.

The partnership continued. Three months later, they launched on schedule.

## Lessons

This scenario taught Maria several things about using the culture-agent effectively. First, the business personality was the right choice: the agent focused on hierarchy, decision-making, and commitment styles rather than social norms. Second, yaml output let her share structured briefings with her team; everyone prepared the same way. Third, the reframe-message prompt was powerful for specific communications; she used it again for the follow-up email.

The biggest insight was that cultural friction often looks like personal conflict. Both sides thought the other was being difficult. The agent helped Maria see the systemic pattern: different uncertainty tolerances, different communication styles, different interpretations of agreement. Once she understood the pattern, she could work with it instead of against it.

For future high-stakes meetings, Maria now runs the meeting-prep skill 48 hours in advance and shares the output with her team. She's become the informal "cultural translator" for German-US projects at her company.

Commit message:

Restructure repo, add generation and superhero agents, improve quality
Reorganize file structure: brief.md → README.md, AGENTS.md → agent-catalogue.md,
ideas.md → agent-ideas.md. Add generation-agent (cross-generational communication)
and superhero-agent (Marvel archetypes for reframing challenges) with full specs,
prompts, skills, personalities, references, case studies, and examples.

Add disclaimers for synthesized content (handbook, agent-ideas, case-study-ideas).

agents/culture-agent/case-studies/german-us-product-launch.md, after:

# German-US Product Launch Meeting

*This case study is fictional. Names, characters, companies, and scenarios are hypothetical. Any resemblance to actual persons or organizations is purely coincidental.*

## Situation

Maria, a product manager at a Munich-based automotive supplier, was preparing for a critical meeting with her US counterparts in Detroit. The meeting would finalize a joint product launch timeline. Previous meetings had gone poorly: the German team felt the Americans were "making promises they couldn't keep" while the US team complained the Germans were "blocking progress with endless requirements." Maria's VP asked her to prepare differently this time.

Maria had three days before the meeting. She needed to understand what was going wrong and how to bridge the gap. The stakes were high: the partnership was worth €50M annually, and both sides were frustrated enough to consider alternative partners.

## How the Agent Was Triggered

Maria accessed the culture-agent through her company's internal collaboration platform, which integrates AI assistants for common business scenarios.

**Trigger method:** Microsoft Teams app, "Meeting Preparation" workflow

**Data sources available to the agent:**

- Hofstede cultural dimensions database (built-in reference)
- Erin Meyer Culture Map framework (built-in reference)
- Company's previous cross-cultural meeting notes (anonymized patterns)
- Public business culture guides for Germany and US

**Data sources provided by Maria:**

- Meeting context and history (two failed previous meetings)
- Participant list with roles and relationship status
- Specific friction points from email threads (paraphrased)
- Desired outcomes for the upcoming meeting

**What the agent could NOT access:**

- Confidential negotiation terms
- Individual personality assessments
- Internal company politics on either side

## Agent Configuration

Maria chose the **business personality** because this was a formal corporate context with negotiations at stake. She requested **yaml output** because she wanted structured, actionable intelligence she could share with her team. She also requested the **meeting-prep skill** to get a comprehensive briefing.

Her input:

```yaml
my_culture: German
their_culture: US
context: "Joint product launch timeline meeting, third attempt after two failed meetings"
meeting_type: negotiation
participants:
  - name: "David Chen"
    role: "VP Product"
    relationship: "Met twice, tense"
  - name: "Sarah Williams"
    role: "Program Manager"
    relationship: "New contact"
personality: business
output_format: yaml
```

## Interaction

The agent first identified the core cultural dimensions at play. It flagged that Germans score high on uncertainty avoidance (65) while the US scores low (46), meaning Germans need detailed plans before committing while Americans are comfortable iterating. It also noted that German communication tends to be more direct and task-focused, while US business culture often starts with relationship-building.

The friction detection was revealing. The agent identified that when the US team said "we're aligned on the timeline," the Germans heard a commitment, but Americans meant "we agree in principle, details to follow." When the Germans pushed back with detailed questions, the US team interpreted it as distrust rather than thoroughness.

Maria asked the agent to reframe a specific message. She wanted to say: "We cannot proceed until all technical specifications are finalized." The agent suggested: "To make sure we hit our launch date together, let's walk through the technical specs and flag any that need more detail. That way we're both confident in the timeline." Same intent, but framed as partnership rather than blocking.

For the meeting itself, the agent provided:

```yaml
pre_meeting:
  relationship_building: "5-10 minutes of small talk expected; prepare questions about their recent product wins"
  materials: "Send agenda 48 hours ahead; Americans appreciate seeing topics but not as rigidly bound to them"

during_meeting:
  pace: "Expect faster pace than German meetings; decisions may be proposed before all data is reviewed"
  language: "American enthusiasm ('this is great!') is politeness, not final agreement"
  disagreement: "Frame concerns as 'how do we solve X' rather than 'X is a problem'"

commitments:
  interpretation: "Write down specific action items; Americans may interpret verbal agreement differently"
  follow_up: "Send written summary within 24 hours to confirm understanding"
```

## Outcome

The meeting went differently. Maria started with 10 minutes discussing Detroit's recent EV announcement, something she'd researched beforehand. When David said "we're excited about this timeline," she responded with "Great, let's make sure we capture all the details so we're both set up to deliver." Instead of pushing back on aggressive dates, she asked "what would need to be true for us to hit that date?"

The US team responded differently too. When they saw the Germans taking notes and asking clarifying questions, Sarah said "I appreciate how thorough you're being. This is going to save us problems later." The meeting ended with a written timeline that both sides understood the same way.

The partnership continued. Three months later, they launched on schedule.

## Lessons

This scenario taught Maria several things about using the culture-agent effectively. First, the business personality was the right choice: the agent focused on hierarchy, decision-making, and commitment styles rather than social norms. Second, yaml output let her share structured briefings with her team; everyone prepared the same way. Third, the reframe-message prompt was powerful for specific communications; she used it again for the follow-up email.

The biggest insight was that cultural friction often looks like personal conflict. Both sides thought the other was being difficult. The agent helped Maria see the systemic pattern: different uncertainty tolerances, different communication styles, different interpretations of agreement. Once she understood the pattern, she could work with it instead of against it.

For future high-stakes meetings, Maria now runs the meeting-prep skill 48 hours in advance and shares the output with her team. She's become the informal "cultural translator" for German-US projects at her company.
